---
title: "Debugging and Profiling"
permalink: /developers/inkstitch/debug/
last_modified_at: 2024-01-12
toc: true
---
## General Setup

### DEBUG.ini

To enable debugging or profiling copy `DEBUG_template.ini` to `DEBUG.ini` and edit it.

### Create bash script for offline debugging from console

1. in `DEBUG.ini` set `create_bash_script = True`
2. call `inkstitch.py` extension from inkscape to create bash script named by `bash_file_base` in `DEBUG.ini`
3. run bash script from console

### Enable debugging

1. set `debug_type` to one of - `vscode`, `pycharm`, `pydev`
    * debug_type = vscode - 'debugpy' for vscode editor
    * debug_type = pycharm - 'pydevd-pycharm' for pycharm editor
    * debug_type = pydev - 'pydevd' for eclipse editor

2. set `debug_enable = True` in `DEBUG.ini`
    * or use command line argument `-d` in bash script
    * or set environment variable `INKSTITCH_DEBUG_ENABLE = True` or 1 or yes or y

With debugging enabled Ink/Stitch will also generate an SVG file for debugging graphs.
{: .notice--info }

### Enable profiling

1. set `profiler_type` to one of - `cprofile`, `profile`, `pyinstrument`
    * profiler_type = cprofile - 'cProfile' profiler
    * profiler_type = profile - 'profile' profiler
    * profiler_type = pyinstrument - 'pyinstrument' profiler

2. set `profile_enable = True` in `DEBUG.ini`
    * or use command line argument `-p` in bash script
    * or set environment variable `INKSTITCH_PROFILE_ENABLE = True` or 1 or yes or y

### Miscelaneous notes

* to disable debugger when running from inkscape set `disable_from_inkscape = True` in `DEBUG.ini`
* to write debug output to file set `debug_to_file = True` in `DEBUG.ini`
* to change various output file names see `DEBUG.ini`
* to disable waiting for debugger to attach (vscode editor) set `wait_attach = False` in `DEBUG.ini`
* to prefer inkscape version of inkex module over pip version set `prefer_pip_inkex = False` in `DEBUG.ini`

## Debuggers

### LiClipse

1. Install LiClipse ([https://liclipse.com](https://liclipse.com)) -- no need to install Eclipse first
2. Start debug server as described here: [http://www.pydev.org/manual_adv_remote_debugger.html](http://www.pydev.org/manual_adv_remote_debugger.html)
    * follow the "Note:" to enable the debug server menu item
3. Enable debug as descriped above (set `debug_type = pydev` in `DEBUG.ini`)
4. Run any extension and PyDev will start debugging.

### PyCharm

You must use the PyCharm Professional Edition and _not_ the Community Edition. Jetbrains has chosen to make remote debugging a Pro feature.
{: .notice--warning }

To debug Inkscape python extensions, the extension code and Inkscape run independently of PyCharm, and only communicate with the debugger via a TCP socket. Thus, debugging is "remote," even if it's on the same machine, connected via the loopback interface.

1. ```
   pip install pydev_pycharm
   ```

   pydev_pycharm is versioned frequently. Jetbrains suggests installing
   a version at least compatible with the current build. For example, if your
   PyCharm build, as found in menu `PyCharm > About` is 223.8617.48, you could do:
   `pip install pydevd-pycharm~=223.8617.48`
2. From the Pycharm "Run" menu, choose "Edit Configurations..." and create a new
   configuration. Set "IDE host name:" to  "localhost" and "Port:" to 5678.
   You can leave the default settings for all other choices.
3. Touch a file named "DEBUG.ini" at the top of your git repo, as above
   set `debug_type = pycharm`
4. If not already happened, create a symbolic link in the Inkscape extensions directory to the
   top-level directory of your git repo. On a `mac`, for example:

   ```
   cd ~/Library/Application\ Support/org.inkscape.Inkscape/config/inkscape/extensions/
   ln -s <full path to the top level of your Ink/Stitch git repo>
   ```

   On other architectures it may be:

   ```
   cd ~/.config/inkscape/extensions
   ln -s <full path to the top level of your Ink/Stitch git repo>
   ```

   Remove any other Ink/Stitch files or references to Ink/Stitch from the
   extensions directory, or you'll see duplicate entries in the Ink/Stitch
   extensions menu in Inkscape.
5. In Pycharm, either click on the green "bug" icon if visible in the upper
   right or press Ctrl-D to start debugging.The PyCharm debugger pane will
   display the message "Waiting for process connection..."
6. Do some action in Inkscape which invokes Ink/Stitch extension code, and the
   debugger will be triggered. If you've left "Suspend after connect" checked
   in the Run configuration, PyCharm will pause in the "self.log("Enabled
   PyDev debugger.)" statement, below. Uncheck the box to have it continue
   automatically to your first set breakpoint.

### VS Code

Helpful Links:
* <https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/debugging#_command-line-debugging>
* <https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/debugging#_debugging-by-attaching-over-a-network-connection>

---

1. Install the Python extension for VS Code

   ```
   pip install debugpy
   ```

2. create `.vscode/launch.json` containing:

   ```
   "configurations": [ ...
       {
           "name": "Python: Attach",
           "type": "python",
           "request": "attach",
           "connect": {
               "host": "localhost",
                "port": 5678
           }
       }
   ]
   ```

3. Set `debug_type = vscode` in `DEBUG.ini`
4. Start the debug server in VS Code by clicking on the debug icon in the left pane
   select "Python: Attach" from the dropdown menu and click on the green arrow.
   The debug server will start and connect to already running python processes,
   but immediately exit if no python processes are running.

**Notes** To see flask server url routes comment out the line self.disable_logging() in run() of lib/api/server.py
{: .notice--info }

## Profilers

### Profile

Enable profiling as described above using profile.
Ink/Stitch will then run under a profiler and dump the result to profile_stats.
It will tell you what functions take how long to run.

Install snakeviz with `pip install snakeviz`.

Open the statistics with `snakeviz profile_stats.prof`.
This will display a really useful interactive graph in your browser.
