---
title: "Debugging and Profiling"
permalink: /fr/developers/inkstitch/debug/
last_modified_at: 2025-03-09
toc: true
---
To enable debugging or profiling copy `DEBUG_template.toml` to `DEBUG.toml` and edit it

## How create bash script for offline debugging from console

1. in `DEBUG.toml` set `create_bash_script = true`
2. call inkstitch.py extension from inkscape to create bash script named by bash_file_base in DEBUG.toml
3. run bash script from console

## Enable debugging

1. set debug_type to one of  - vscode, pycharm, pydev, see below for details

   * debug_type = vscode    - `debugpy` for vscode editor
   * debug_type = pycharm   - `pydevd-pycharm` for pycharm editor
   * debug_type = pydev     - `pydevd` for eclipse editor

2. set `debug_enable = true` in `DEBUG.toml`<br>
   or use command line argument `-d` in bash script<br>
   or set environment variable `INKSTITCH_DEBUG_ENABLE = True` (or 1 or yes or y)

## Enable profiling

1. set profiler_type to one of - cprofile, profile, pyinstrument, monkeytype

   * profiler_type = cprofile     - `cProfile` profiler
   * profiler_type = profile      - `profile` profiler
   * profiler_type = pyinstrument - `pyinstrument` profiler
   * profiler_type = monkeytype   - `monkeytype` profiler

2. set `profile_enable = true` in `DEBUG.toml`<br>
   or use command line argument `-p` in bash script<br>
   or set environment variable `INKSTITCH_PROFILE_ENABLE = True` (or 1 or yes or y)

## Miscellaneous notes

- to disable debugger when running from inkscape set `disable_from_inkscape = true` in `DEBUG.toml`
- to change various output file names see `DEBUG.toml`
- to disable waiting for debugger to attach (vscode editor) set `wait_attach = false` in `DEBUG.toml`
- to prefer inkscape version of inkex module over pip version set `prefer_pip_inkex = false` in `DEBUG.toml`

## How to debug with ...

### LiClipse

1. Install [LiClipse](https://liclipse.com) -- no need to install Eclipse first
2. Start debug server as described here: <http://www.pydev.org/manual_adv_remote_debugger.html>
   * follow the "Note:" to enable the debug server menu item
3. Copy and edit a file named `DEBUG.toml` from `DEBUG_template.toml` next to inkstitch.py in your git clone
   and set `debug_type = pydev`
4. Run any extension and PyDev will start debugging.


### PyCharm

You must use the PyCharm Professional Edition and _not_ the Community
Edition. Jetbrains has chosen to make remote debugging a Pro feature.
To debug Inkscape python extensions, the extension code and Inkscape run
independently of PyCharm, and only communicate with the debugger via a
TCP socket. Thus, debugging is "remote," even if it's on the same machine,
connected via the loopback interface.

1. `pip install pydev_pycharm`

   pydev_pycharm is versioned frequently. Jetbrains suggests installing
   a version at least compatible with the current build. For example, if your
   PyCharm build, as found in menu PyCharm -> About Pycharm is 223.8617.48,
   you could do:

   `pip install pydevd-pycharm~=223.8617.48`

2. From the Pycharm "Run" menu, choose `Edit Configurations...` and create a new
   configuration. Set `IDE host name:` to  `localhost` and `Port:` to `5678`.
   You can leave the default settings for all other choices.

3. Touch a file named `DEBUG.toml` at the top of your git repo, as above
   set `debug_type = pycharm`

4. Create a symbolic link in the Inkscape extensions directory to the
   top-level directory of your git repo. On a mac, for example:

   ```
   cd ~/Library/Application\ Support/org.inkscape.Inkscape/config/inkscape/extensions/
   ln -s <full path to the top level of your Ink/Stitch git repo>
   ```

   On other architectures it may be:
   ```
   cd ~/.config/inkscape/extensions
   ln -s <full path to the top level of your Ink/Stitch git repo>
   ```

   Remove any other Ink/Stitch files or references to Ink/Stitch from the
   extensions directory, or you'll see duplicate entries in the Ink/Stitch
   extensions menu in Inkscape. Or use the [multiversion setup](/developers/inkstitch/multiversion/).

5. In Pycharm, either click on the green "bug" icon if visible in the upper
   right or press Ctrl-D to start debugging.The PyCharm debugger pane will
   display the message "Waiting for process connection..."

6. Do some action in Inkscape which invokes Ink/Stitch extension code, and the
   debugger will be triggered. If you've left "Suspend after connect" checked
   in the Run configuration, PyCharm will pause in the `self.log("Enabled
   PyDev debugger.)` statement, below. Uncheck the box to have it continue
   automatically to your first set breakpoint.

### VS Code

see:
* <https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/debugging#_command-line-debugging>
* <https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/debugging#_debugging-by-attaching-over-a-network-connection>

1. Install the Python extension for VS Code

   `pip install debugpy`

2. create .vscode/launch.json containing:

   ```
   "configurations": [ ...
        {
           "name": "Python: Attach",
           "type": "python",
           "request": "attach",
           "connect": {
               "host": "localhost",
               "port": 5678
            }
        }
     ]
     ```

3. Touch a file named `DEBUG.toml` at the top of your git repo, as above
   set `debug_type = vscode`

4. Start the debug server in VS Code by clicking on the debug icon in the left pane
   select "Python: Attach" from the dropdown menu and click on the green arrow.
   The debug server will start and connect to already running python processes,
   but immediately exit if no python processes are running.

## Profilers

### Profile

Enable profiling as described above using profile.
Ink/Stitch will then run under a profiler and dump the result to profile_stats.
It will tell you what functions take how long to run.

Install snakeviz with `pip install snakeviz`.

Open the statistics with `snakeviz profile_stats.prof`.
This will display a really useful interactive graph in your browser.

### Monkeytype

Much of our code, especially older code, lacks type annotations.

If you want to add type annotations to older code, or learn what types are used in a part of the codebase without type annotations, you my find [MonkeyType](https://monkeytype.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) useful.

* Set `profile_enable = True`
* Uncomment the `profiler_type = "monkeytype"`
* Install monkeytype with `pip install monkeytype`.

After running Ink/Stitch command, a window will pop up telling you how to run Monkeytype and use your newly-collected type information.
Multiple command runs will all add to the type information database.
