---
title: "Tatami Stitch (Fill Stitch)"
permalink: /docs/stitches/fill-stitch/
last_modified_at: 2025-12-29
toc: true
---
## Description

Fill stitch is used to fill big areas with a color by moving back and forth in rows.

{% include folder-galleries path="butterfly-fill-project/tatami/" captions="1:Simple Tatami using two different angles;2:Tatami with higher end row spacing;3:Tatami using various param settings;4:Tatami using a pattern" %}

## Creation

To use a Tatami-Fill, create a **closed path with a fill color**. Shapes are allowed to have holes.

**Tip:** If you are having trouble filling your area, run the "[fill repair tool (break apart)](/docs/fill-tools/)" on them. This will solve most of your issues very easily.
{: .notice--info }

### Set Start and End Point

A fill starts as close as possible to the previous embroidery element and ends as close as possible to the next embroidery element by default.

Change this behavior by setting start and end points for your fill objects with [visual commands](/docs/commands/).

## Parameters

### Top Layer

Run `Extensions > Ink/Stitch > Params` to tweak the settings to your needs.

{% include params.html stitch_type='tatami'%}

### Underlay

If only one layer of fill stitches is used, it usually doesn't look good. The individual stitches tend to sink into the fabric (even if it's thin), and the filling appears rather sparse. The fabric can even bulge out between the rows.

To solve this, you need underlay. This is an initial layer of stitches that hold up the final stitches. Underlay for fill stitch usually comprises of fill stitching 90 degrees offset from the final fill (called "top stitching"). The row spacing should be much wider than in the top stitching. The goal is to flatten out the fabric and give the top stitches "rails" to sit on.

Underlay is enabled in Ink/Stitch by default. In some rare cases (e.g. a fill layer with big row spacing) you will want to disable it. Uncheck the checkbox "Underlay" in the `Fill Underlay` tab in your params dialogue window. Other cases will require **multiple underlay**. To enable, enter a space separated list of fill angles and it will result into multiple underlay layers.

{% include params.html stitch_type='tatami-underlay'%}

### Sample Files Including Fill Stitches

{% include tutorials/tutorial_list key="stitch-type" value="Fill Stitch" %}

## Legacy Fill

Legacy Fill is the old manual mode before tatami routing was implemented.

In legacy fill, the extension will still break up the shape into sections, each of which can be embroidered in one go. Then these sections will be fill-stitched one at a time, jumping directly between sections.

You'll almost certainly want to break your shape up into smaller shapes and connect them using [running stitches](/docs/stitches/stroke/#running-stitch-mode). It's a painstaking process, made more so because you'll need to do it twice: once for the underlay and again for the top stitching.

Run `Extensions > Ink/Stitch > Params` to alter stitch details.

{% include upcoming_release_params.html %}

{% include params.html stitch_type='legacy-fill' %}
