---
title: "Edit"
permalink: /docs/edit/
excerpt: ""
last_modified_at: 2023-03-13
toc: true
---
## Duplicate Params

This extension will allow you to simply copy Ink/Stitch params from the first selected object to multiple elements.

### Usage
* Select the element you want to copy the params from
* Hold shift while you select additional elements to which you want to transfer the params
* Run `Extensions > Ink/Stitch > Edit > Duplicate Params`

## Re-stack objects in order of selection

This tool will take away a lot of work when you are about to reorder your objects for a better routing. Instead of moving your objects in the object panel one by one, perform the following steps:

* Select elements in the order you want them to be stitched out
* Run `Extensions > Ink/Stitch > Re-stack objects in order of selection`

Ink/Stitch will then reorder your elements as you selected them. First selected element will be placed in the lowest position of your object panel (which means it will be stitched out first).

**Warning**: If you select elements from different groups or layers, they will be placed in the same group afterwards. Which can lead to a different placement of some elements if one or both group elements have a transformation.
{: .notice--warning }

## Selection to pattern

This will mark selected elements as embroidery patterns.

[More about patterns](/docs/stitches/patterns/)

## Selection to guide

This will mark selected elements as guide for guided fill and ripple stitch.

[More about guided fill](/docs/stitches/guided-fill/)
[More about ripple fill](/docs/stitches/ripple-fill/)

## Select embroidery elements

{% include upcoming_release.html %}

Sometimes you will want to select all elements of a specific embroidery type (for example a satin column with a centerwalk underlay). This extension is able to do this for you.

### Usage

* If you do not want to select all elements in the document, but only from a smaller area, select a bunch of elements and the extensionn will deselect those elements which do not fit the selection rules.
* Run `Extensions > Ink/Stitch > Select embroidery elements...`
* Select the stitch types you want to select and click `Apply`

**macOS**: This won't work for macOS users unless they install dbus manually.
{: .notice--warning }
