---
title: "F.A.Q."
permalink: /fr/docs/faq/
last_modified_at: 2022-01-18
toc: true
---
## Contact / Ressources externes

Nous sommes heureux d'avoir des échanges avec vous! Si vous souhaitez nous contacter, exposer un problème sur [GitHub](https://github.com/inkstitch/inkstitch/issues) ("New Issue"). Nous ferons de notre mieux pour vous aider à résoudre votre problème.

Si vous rencontrez un nouveau bug, il serait très utile d’ajouter un nouveau problème pour nous le signaler.

Regardez également ces problèmes existants

* [Bugs signalés](https://github.com/inkstitch/inkstitch/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Abug)
* [Requêtes de nouvelles fonctionnalités](https://github.com/inkstitch/inkstitch/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22feature+request%22)

Essayez notre chaine YouTube.

* [Videos: Série de tutoriels pour débutants](/fr/tutorials/resources/beginner-video-tutorials/)

ou entrez en contact avec d'autres utilisateurs sur Facebook

* [Facebook (français)](https://www.facebook.com/groups/811488062586111/)
* [Facebook (anglais)](https://www.facebook.com/groups/inkstitch/)
* [Facebook (allemand)](https://www.facebook.com/groups/inkstitchdeutsch/)

## Installation d'Ink/Stitch

Merci de lire les instructions d'installation correspondant à votre système. Vous trouverez une section "Résolution de problèmes" sous la description.


* <i class="fab fa-linux"></i> [Linux](/fr/docs/install-linux/)
* <i class="fab fa-apple"></i> [macOS](/fr/docs/install-macos/)
* <i class="fab fa-windows"></i> [Windows](/fr/docs/install-windows/)

## Couldn't save embrodiery file

### Too many color changes

The brother file formats pec and pes are not able to save files with more than 255 color changes - and they are right.
It would be a pain to embroidery these designs. Just imagine, that you'll have to change thread all time!

This means, if you are working with pes or not, it will make a lot of sense to revisit your design and see, how you can reorganize and simplify it.

**Fill and Stroke color**

Many color changes can result from elements that are seemingly just one color. But if they have a fill and a stroke color.
Let's take an example. Ten elements have a blue fill and a red stroke. Ink/Stitch will stitch for the first element first blue and then red,
then it starts again with a blue will for the second element. We will end up with 19 color changes for the ten elements.

If you need both - meaning a fill with an outline - group the elements and duplicate the group. For the first group set the stroke color to none, for the second group
remove the fill. In our example you now have 1 color changes, compared to 19.

**Group colors as much as possible**

Make sure to chose the right order of elements. When possible, group elements with the same color together. Sometimes it won't be possible.
Some elements have to go on top of other elements or you'll need to stitch elements of different colors right after each other to prevent bad registration due to
the push and pull on the fabric during the stitch out.

More information about routing options should be placed in the tutorial section soon (hopefully).

**Simplify your design**

When we start out with the embroidery journey, the first thing most of us have to learn is, that not every design can be taken and embroirered out as is.
Embroidering on fabric implies many factors that a digitizer has to be aware of and it is a steep learning process and a lot of trial and error to finally be
able to stitch out the designs as they should be.

It is best to start with simple designs with just a few elements.
Learn about available [stitch types](/docs/stitch-library/) and stitch routing methods to avoid as many jump stitches as possible.

## Vous avez des messages d'erreur

Chercher dans les [messages d'erreur](/fr/docs/error-messages) et voir si la description contient des informations utiles pour vous. Si le message ne figure pas dans la liste ou si la réponse ne vous suffit pas, veuillez nous contacter en déposant un message sur [GitHub](https://github.com/inkstitch/inkstitch/issues). Nous sommes reconnaissants pour tout rapport de ce genre qui aidera Ink/Stitch à s'amèliorer
